DSA Jabari joins us live from tan dorsa
Iran is being accused of helping plan
hamas's surprise attack on Saturday
we've since heard from the Iranian
foreign Ministry and it had some strong
words talk us through
it yes uh during his weekly uh press
briefing the spokesperson uh nasar
Kanani uh dismissed the allegations uh
and he said that the Palestinian people
have the will the capability and the
determination to defend themselves and
any allegations that are coming towards
Iran are politically motivated and they
are aimed at diverting public opinion to
justify any possible actions on Iran in
the future he also said if there were to
be any um actions taken against Iran
when it comes to their um the
allegations that they had a possible
role in planning and and um assisting
the attacks that were carried out on
Saturday and continue to this day in
Palestine and Israel the that Iran will
respond harshly and that this is not
something that um is even uh remotely
possible in the minds of the
establishment here that what happened in
Palestine had to do with years of uh
occupation and oppression and that was
the result of um not only Israeli policy
but also what many here believe to be
Western policies towards the Palestinian
people explain to our International
audience the historical context of all
of this why Iran is in some ways a major
player uh in this
region well Iran since the revolution of
1979 has uh really seen itself as a Shia
minority um in the Middle East it is a
Shia majority country so there was a
number of steps taken by the founder of
the Revolution aah K to ensure that
Iran's position maintains uh secure one
of them was to align itself with other
resistance groups um not just Shia
resistance group like Hezbollah but also
like Hamas and Islamic Jihad to ensure
their own uh existence down the line and
the existence of Israel has always been
a point of contention for Iran they
believe that they don't believe Israel
has a right to exist as a nation as a
country and they've never acknowledged
uh that uh to be the case they say
Palestine is um a country that has been
oppressed so there's a lot of different
factors at play at the core of it of
course it's the their own existence the
Iran's own security and existence down
the line in the Middle East and the role
that they have played and they believe
that that the Palestinian issue has
always been an important one for them
because it also not only um serves the
Palestinian people and the nation but
also their own purpose as well in terms
of their own existence down the line so
there's been a lot of different groups
and elements that Iran has aligned
itself with to serve that purpose
appreciate you breaking all down for us
Dosa Jabari in tyan Muhammad Mandi who
is a political analyst and a professor
at the University of tyan he joins us
from the Iranian Capital thanks so much
for being on the program explain to our
International audience the relationship
between Iran and Israel and why tan is
being accused of having quote tentacles
all over this attack by
hamus Iran's support for the Palestinian
people uh is linked to uh the revolution
itself During the Revolution there were
two causes that the Iranians were very
much f focused on one was supporting the
anti-apartheid movement in South Africa
and the second was supporting the
dispossessed Palestinian people across
Palestine and uh at that time Western
countries were supporting both the apid
regime in South Africa and the Israeli
regime and Nelson Mandela thec and
others were all terrorist organizations
in Western capitals so Iran support for
H the Islamic Jihad and other resistance
groups is because they have a legitimate
cause they've been dispossessed they've
been colonized they've been ethnically
cleansed and the people who are trapped
in Gaza in this ghetto uh they have been
dispossessed from their land okay uh
across Southern Palestine I guess I want
to look at the broader context of this
and what it means in terms of Hezbollah
and Hamas
um the Lebanese militant group being
involved in the broader implications
regionally could we see this conflict
now spilling out uh further in the
region it is quite possible because we
are seeing the genocidal Tendencies of
the Israeli regime playing out as they
indiscriminately bomb homes and murder
women and children across Gaza and
Western media they all all are
justifying it because they've all been
justifying the actions of the apartheid
settler regime for decades and uh as we
speak people are being massacred last
night they were being
massacred Powers have been raised to the
ground and constantly Western media
Outlets have been trying to justify all
this because they side with the Israeli
regime it is the responsibility of Iran
and Iranians and people across the
region and across the globe to stand up
for the dispossessed and not to be
fooled by these Western narratives
Hezbollah supports Hamas because they
are victims Hezbollah supports the
Palestinian people because these are
victims and heah is much stronger than
Hamas by the way it is not surrounded so
I just want to sir I just want to
interrupt you there for a moment sorry
I'm just getting word that um we've
heard
from
from the the Iran foreign Ministry sorry
the the information is just flowing in
as I speak to the Iran foreign Ministry
has said any foolish Israeli action
against Iran will be met with a
devastating response we're already
facing a war between Gaza and Israel and
now we're getting threats like that your
response well the Americans or American
officials have been threatening Iran as
well and I think that the Americans know
quite well that they've already bitten
off more than they can to in Ukraine in
East Asia with China the United States
and its allies are on the decline they
they're not the powers that they were 30
40 years ago the Israeli regime is in no
position to threaten Iran because the
Israeli regime cannot even destroy the
Palestinian people but the United States
if it does something foolish then it
will be expelled from the region the
United States is very vulnerable
and the price of fuel will go through
the roof it will destroy the Western
economies and then you'll be seeing the
violence across Europe and North America
sorry we just have to cut it short there
we're running um short of time that was
Muhammad Mandi the a professor rather
from the University of tyan